English Proficiency Tests for Degree Transfer to UIUC
https://www.admissions.illinois.edu/policies#:~:text=The%20majority%20of%20admitted%20students,the%20minimum%20total%20is%207.5.
Transfer Applicants
Transfer applicants must meet one of the following conditions to satisfy our minimum English proficiency requirement. These are only the minimum requirements needed to meet English proficiency. In many cases, the standards needed to gain admission will be much higher, so it would be to the student's advantage to submit all test scores demonstrating a high level of English competency. Test scores that will be used to fulfill the English proficiency requirement must be taken within two years of the student's date of enrollment in the university.
TOEFL (Internet-based Test of English as a Foreign Language or the TOEFL iBT Home Edition*)
Exams taken on or after January 21, 2026: Score a minimum of 5.0 total with subscores all 4.5+
Exams taken before January 21, 2026: Score a minimum of 100 total with subscores all 20+
IELTS (Academic International English Testing System)
Score a minimum of 7.5 total with subscores all 6.5+
Duolingo English Test
Score a minimum of 130 overall with subscores 125+ (Comprehension, Conversation, Literacy, Production)
Complete all secondary (years 9 to 12) and post-secondary schooling in an approved country† where English is the official language.
Score high enough on the English section of the ACT or Evidence-Based Reading and Writing section of the SAT. We'll review these scores on an individual basis in lieu of TOEFL iBT, IELTS, or Duolingo English Test scores to determine if they meet English proficiency. We encourage students to take the TOEFL iBT, IELTS, or Duolingo English Test if they're concerned their ACT or SAT scores might not be high enough to prove English proficiency for admission.
After graduating from high school, complete two years of continuous full-time study at a regionally accredited college or university in the U.S. or a recognized college or university in an approved country† where English is the official language. Full-time study is defined as at least 12 semester hours per semester or 12 quarter hours per quarter of transferable coursework, excluding: English as a second language (ESL) courses; developmental coursework related to instruction in English reading, composition, and/or grammar; test credit; and failed courses. Attendance at an English language institute can't be used to satisfy this requirement. Coursework must be completed within two years of the proposed date of enrollment. Coursework completed prior to high school graduation date may not be used to meet this requirement.
*The TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition will be accepted for spring and fall 2026, but a decision has not been made for future terms.
†Approved countries include Australia, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Canada (excluding Quebec), the Cayman Islands, Dominica, Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guyana, Ireland, Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, New Zealand, Nigeria, Saint Kitts, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Trinidad and Tobago, the United Kingdom, and the United States (excluding Puerto Rico).